>> We're live from Georgia, a key battleground stayed in the race for the White House. In just moments, the current U.S. President will debate the former U.S. President as their parties presumptive nominees of first in American history. We want to welcome our viewers in the United States and around the world for our studios in Atlanta. This is the CNN presidential debate. This debate is being produced by CNN and is coming to you live on CNN, CNN International, CNN.com, CNN Max, and CNN Espanol. This is a pivotal moment between President Joe Biden and former President Donald Trump in their rematch for the nation's highest office. Each will make his case to the American people with just over four months until election day. >> Good evening, I'm Dan Abash, anchor of CNN's inside politics and co-ancer of state union. >> I'm Jake Tapper, anchor of CNN's Delete and co-ancer of state of the union. Dan and I will co-moderate this evening. Our job is to facilitate a debate between the two candidates tonight before we introduce them we want to share the rules of the debate with the audience at home. Former President Trump will be on the left side of the screen. President Biden will be appearing on the right, a coin toss determined their positions. Each candidate will have two minutes to answer a question and one minute each for responses and rebuttals. An additional minute for follow-up clarification or response is at the moderator's discretion. >> When it's time for our candidate to speak, his by-perform will be turned on and as opponents microphone will be turned off. So, the candidate interrupt when his microphone is muted, he will be difficult to understand for viewers at home. At the end of the debate, each candidate will get two minutes for closing statements. There is no studio audience tonight. Free written notes, props or contact with campaign staff are not permitted during the debate. By accepting our invitation to debate both candidates and their campaigns agreed to accept these rules. >> Now, please welcome the 46th President of the United States Joe Biden. >> Thank you. >> Thank you. >> And please welcome the 45th President of the United States Donald Trump. >> [MUSIC] >> John, thanks so much for being here. Let's begin the debate and let's start with the issue that voters consistently say is their top concern the economy. President Biden, inflation has slowed, but prices remain high since you took office the price of essentials has increased. For example, a basket of groceries that cost $100, then now costs more than $120. And typical home prices have jumped more than 30%. What do you say to voters who feel they are worse off under your presidency than they were under President Trump? >> We have taken a look at what I was left from. It became president. What Mr. Trump left me. We had an economy that was in free fall. The pandemic was so badly handled. Many people were dying. All he said was not that serious, just injector of bleach and Iran to be all right. The economy collapsed. There were no jobs. Unemployment rate rose to 15%, it was terrible. And so what we had to do is try to put things back together again. That's exactly what we began to do. We created 15,000 new jobs. We brought out the position where we have 800,000 new manufacturing jobs. But there's more to be done. There's more to be done. Working class people are still in trouble. I come from Scranton, Pennsylvania. I come from a household where to kitchen table. The things we're enabling them to be met during the month was a problem. Press the fakes, the press the gas, the press the housing, the press the whole range of things. That's why I'm working so hard to make sure I deal with those problems. We're going to make sure they're here. We do the press of housing. We're going to make sure we're both two million new units. We're going to make sure we cap rents. So corporate greed can't take over. The combination. But I've left with a corporate greed of the reason why I bring this problem right now. In addition to that, we're in a situation where if you had to take a look at all that was done in this administration. He didn't do much at all by the time he left, there's things like chaos. Those are the chaos. And so we put things back together. We created and I said those jobs. We make sure we had a situation where we now brought down the price of prescription drug which is a major issue for many people. It's $15 for a insolent shot as opposed to $400. Now, senior has to pay more than $200 for any drug. All the drugs they could include be getting next year. In a situation that's making, and we're going to make that available to everybody to all Americans. So we're working to bring down the price of the prescription. The kitchen table. And that's what we're going to get done. Thank you, President Trump. We're the greatest economy in the history of a country. We have never done so well. Everybody was amazed by it. Other countries were copying us. We got hit with COVID. And when we did, we spent the money necessary. So we wouldn't end up in a great depression, the likes of which we had in 1929. By the time we finished, so we did a great job. We got a lot of credit for the economy. A lot of credit for the military and no wars and so many other things. Everything was rocking good. But the thing we never got the credit for and we should have is getting us out of that COVID mess. He created mandates. That was a disaster for our country. But other than that, we had given them back a country where the stock market actually was higher than pre-COVID. And nobody thought that was even possible. The only jobs he created are for illegal immigrants and bounce back jobs. A bounce back from the COVID. He has not done a good job. He's done a poor job in inflation. Killing our country. It is absolutely killing us. Thank you, President Biden. Well, if you're greatest economy in the world, he's the only one to think that. I think I don't know anybody else. I think it's a great thing. It's a great economy in the world. And the fact that the matter is that we're trying to find ourselves in a situation where his economy, you're rewarded the wealthy. The largest tax cut in American history, $2 trillion. He raised a deficit large in that he president has in any one term. He's the only president of the Herbert Hoover. Was that lost more jobs than he had really began since Herbert Hoover. The idea that he did something that was significant and the military. You know, when he was president, there was still killing people in Afghanistan. He didn't do anything about that. When he was president, we were still finding ourselves in a position where you had a notion that we were the safe country. Truth is, I'm the only president this century. It doesn't have any, this decade that any troops dying anywhere in the world like he did. President Trump, I want to follow up if I can. You want to respond to him. Well, I'm going to ask you a follow up. You can do whatever you want with the minute that we give you. I want to follow up. You want to impose a 10% tariff on all goods coming into the US. How will you ensure that that doesn't drive prices even higher? I'm not going to drive a higher. It's just going to cost countries that have been ripping us off for years like China. And many others in all fairness to China, it's going to force them to pay us a lot of money, reduce our deficit tremendously, and give us a lot of power for other things. But he would, he made a statement. The only thing he was right about is I gave you the largest tax cut in history. I also gave you the largest regulation cut in history. That's why we had all the jobs. And the jobs went down and then they bounced back and he's taking credit for bounce back jobs. You can't do that. He also said he inherited 9% inflation. Now he inherited almost no inflation. And it stayed that way for 14 months. And then it blew up under his leadership because they spent money like a bunch of people that didn't know what they were doing. And they don't know what they were doing. And there's a worse probably the worst administration in history. There's never been. And as far as Afghanistan is concerned, I was getting out of Afghanistan, but we're getting out with dignity, with strength, with power. He got out. It was the most embarrassing day in the history of our country's life. President Trump, over the last eight years, under both of your administrations, the national debt soared to record highs. And according to a new nonpartisan analysis, President Trump, your administration approved $8.4 trillion in new debt, while so far, President Biden, you've approved $4.3 trillion in new debt. So former President Trump, many of the tax cuts that you signed into law are set to expire next year. You want to extend them and go even further, you say, with the U.S. facing trillion dollar deficits and record debt, why should top earners and corporations pay even less in taxes than they do now? Because the tax cuts spurred the greatest economy that we've ever seen just prior to COVID. And even after COVID, it was so strong that we were able to get through COVID much better than just about any other country. But we spurred that tax spurred now. When we cut the taxes, as an example, the corporate tax was cut down to 21 percent from 39 percent plus beyond that. We took in more revenue with much less tax, and companies were bringing back trillions of dollars back into our country. The country was going like never before. And we were ready to start paying down debt. We were ready to start using the liquid gold red under our feet. The oiling gas red under our feet. We were going to have something that nobody else has had. We got hit with COVID. We did a lot to fix it. I gave him an unbelievable situation with all of the therapeutics and all of the things that we came up with. We gave him something great. Remember, more people died under his administration, even though we had largely fixed it. More people died under his administration than our administration. And we were right in the middle of it. Something which a lot of people don't like to talk about. But he had far more people dying in his administration. He did the mandate, which is a disaster, mandating it. The vaccine went out. He did a mandate on the vaccine, which is the thing that people most objected to about the vaccine. And he did a very poor job, just a very poor job. And I will tell you, not only poor there, but throughout the entire world, when no longer respected as a country, they don't respect our leadership, they don't respect the United States. Anymore, we're like a third-world nation between weaponization of his election trying to go after his political opponent. All of the things he's done, we've become like a third-world nation. And it's a shame. The damage he's done to our country. And I'd love to ask him and will why he allowed millions of people to come in here from prisons, jails and mental institutions to come into our country and destroy our country. President Trump, we will get to immigration later in this block. President Biden, I want to give you an opportunity to respond to this question about the national debt. He had the largest national debt of any president for your period. Number one. Number two, he had that $2 trillion tax card benefited the very wealthy. I want him to do his fix the taxes. For example, we had a thousand trillionaires in America. I mean, it billionaires in America. And what's happening? They're in a situation where they, in fact, pay 8.2% taxes. If they just paid 24% or 25% or any of those numbers, they'd raise $500 million billion. $1 billion, I should say, in a 10-year period. We'd be able to write what about his debt. We'd be able to help make sure that all those things we need to do childcare, elder care, making sure that we continue to strengthen our healthcare system. Making sure that we're able to make every single solitary person eligible for what I've been able to do with the COVID. I'll just give you with dealing with everything we have to do with what we've finally be Medicare. Thank you, President Biden, President Trump. It was ready. He did beat Medicare. He beat it to death and he's destroying Medicare because all of these people are coming in. They're putting them on Medicare. They're putting them on social security. They're going to destroy social security. This man is going to singlehandedly destroy social security. These millions and millions of people coming in, they're trying to put them on social security. He will wipe out social security. He will wipe out Medicare. So he was right in the way he finished that sentence. And it's a shame what's happened to our country in the last four years is not to be believed. Foreign countries, I'm friends with a lot of people. They cannot believe what happened to the United States of America. We're no longer respected. They don't like us. We give them everything they want. And they think we're stupid. They think we're very stupid people. What we're doing for other countries and they do nothing for us. But this man has done is absolutely criminal. Thank you, President Trump. Dana? This is the first presidential election since the Supreme Court overturned Roe V. Wade. This morning, the court ruled on yet another abortion case temporarily allowing emergency abortions to continue an Idaho despite that state's restrictive ban. Former President Trump, you take credit for the decision to overturn Roe V. Wade, which returned the issue of abortion to the state's. However, the federal government still plays a role in whether or not women have access to abortion pills. They're used in about two thirds of all abortions. As President, would you block abortion medication? First of all, the Supreme Court just approved the abortion pill. And I agree with the decision to have done that. And I will not block it. And if you look at this whole question that you're asking, "A complex but not really complex." 51 years ago, you had Roe V. Wade and everybody wanted to get it back to the states. Everybody, without exception, Democrats, Republicans, liberals, conservatives. Everybody wanted to back religious leaders. And what I did is I put three great Supreme Court justices on the court and they happened to vote in favor of killing Roe V. Wade and moving it back to the states. This is something that everybody wanted. Now, 10 years ago or so, they started talking about how many weeks and how many this getting into other things. But every legal scholar throughout the world, the most respected, wanted it brought back to the states. I did that. Now, the states are working it out. If you look at Ohio, it was a decision that was an end result. It was a little bit more liberal than you would have thought. Kansas, I would say the same thing. Texas is different, Florida is different. But they're all making their own decisions right now. And right now, the states control it. That's the vote of the people. The Ronald Reagan, I believe in the exceptions. I am a person that believes. And frankly, I think it's important to believe in the exceptions. Some people, you have to follow your heart. Some people don't believe in that. But I believe in the exceptions for rape and sest and the life of the mother. I think it's very important. Some people don't follow your heart. But you have to get elected also. And because that has to do with other things, you got to get elected. The problem they have is they're radical because they will take the life of a child in the eighth month, the ninth month, and even after birth. After birth, if you look at the former governor of Virginia, he was willing to do this. He said, well, put the baby aside. And we'll determine what we do with the baby. Meaning we'll kill the baby. What happens? We brought it back to the states and the country is now coming together on this issue. It's been a great thing. Thank you, President Biden. It's been a terrible thing. What you're doing? The fact is, the vast majority of the Constitution scholars support it, row, when it was decided. Support it row. And that's the idea that they were all against it. It's just ridiculous. And this is the guy who says the states should be able to have it. We're in state where in six weeks, you don't even know what you're pregnant or not, but you cannot see the doctor have your, and have him decide on what your circumstances are, whether you need help. The idea that states are able to do this is a little like saying, we're going to turn civil rights back to the states. That each state have a different rule. Look, there's so many young women who have been including a young woman who just murdered. And he went to the funeral. The idea that she was murdered by an immigrant coming in and talk about that. But here's the deal. There's a lot of young women to be raped by their in laws, by their spouses, brothers and sisters. But it's just ridiculous. And they can do nothing about it. And they try to rest them on their cross-state line. Thank you. There have been many young women murdered by the same people he allows to come across our border. We have a border that's the most dangerous place anywhere in the world. And he opened it up and these killers are coming into our country. And they are raping and killing women. And it's a terrible thing. As far as the abortions concerted, it is now back with the states of state's voting. In many cases, it's frankly a very liberal decision. In many cases, it's the opposite. But they're voting. And it's bringing it back to the vote of the people, which is what everybody wanted, including the founders if they knew about this issue, which frankly they didn't. But they would have -- everybody wanted brought back Ronald Reagan, wanted it brought back. He wasn't able to get it. Everybody wanted it brought back. And many presidents had tried to get it back. I was the one to do it. And again, this gives it the vote of the people. And that's where they wanted it. And they would be legal scholar, wanted it that way. Staying on the topic of abortion, president Biden, seven states, I'll let you do that. This is the same topic. Seven states have no legal restrictions on how far into a pregnancy a woman can obtain an abortion. Do you support any legal limits on how a woman should be able to terminate a pregnancy? I should put it row v. Wait, I should have three stride measures. First time is between the woman and the doctor. Second time is between the doctor and an extreme situation. The third time is between the doctor, I mean, between the women and the state. The idea that the politicians -- the founders wanted the politicians to be the ones making decisions to my woman's health is ridiculous. That's the last -- no politicians have been making that decision. A doctor should be making those decisions. That's how it should be run. That's what's going to do. And if I'm going to let my family restore a row v. Weird. So that means he can take the life of the baby in the ninth month and even after birth because some states, Democrat, run, take it after birth. Again, the governor, former governor of Virginia, put the baby down that we decide what to do with it. So he's willing to, as we say, rip the baby out of the womb in the ninth month and kill the baby. Nobody wants that to happen. Democrat or Republican. Nobody wants it to happen. You know, that is simply not true. The grovey wage is not a provider that. That's not the circumstance. Only woman's life is in danger. She's going to die. That's the only circumstance that can happen. But we are not for late term abortion period. Period period. Under row v. Wade, you have late term abortion. You can do whatever you want. Depending on the state, you can do whatever you want. We don't think that's a good thing. We think it's a radical thing. We think the Democrats are the radicals, not the Republican. For 51 years, that was a law. 51 years, Constance of Scholarship, said it was the right way to go. 51 years, and it was taken away because this guy put you to a very conservative members on the Supreme Court to take credit for taking it away. What's he going to do? What's he going to do, in fact, if the... if the... Magarory Publicans, he gets elected and the Magarory Publicans control the Congress and they pass on the Universal Ban on a abortion period across the board at six weeks or seven or eight or ten week. Something very, very conservative. Is he going to sign that bill? I'll veto it. He'll sign it. Thank you. Let's turn on the issue of immigration and border security. President Biden, a record number of migrants have illegally crossed the southern border on your watch. Overwhelming border states and overburdening cities such as New York and Chicago, and in some cases causing real safety and security concerns. Given that, why should voters trust you to solve this crisis? Because we worked very hard to get a bipartisan agreement. That not only changed all of that, it made sure that we are in a situation where you had no circumstance where they could come across the border with the number of... ...portar police right now. Recibificantly increased the number of asylum officers. Significantly, by the way, the border patrol endorsed me, endorsed my position. In addition to that, we found ourselves in a situation where when he was present, he was taking separating babies from their mother's, putting them in cages, making sure they have not abandoned them and the families were separated. That's not the right way to go. What I've done since I've changed the law, what's happened? I've changed it in the way that now you're in a situation where the 40% fewer people coming across the border legally, has been in a relief office. I'm going to continue to move until we get the total ban. The total initiative relative to what we're going to do with more border patrol and more asylum officers. President Trump? I wrote on what he said at the end of that sentence. I don't think he knows what he said either. Look, we had the safest border in the history of our country. The border only had to do his leave it. Only had to do his leave it. He decided to open up our border, open up our country to people that are from prisons. People that are from mental institutions in St. Assala, terrorists with the largest number of terrorists coming into our country right now, all terrorists all over the world, not just in South America, all over the world. They come from the Middle East everywhere, all over the world they're pouring in. And this guy just left it open and he didn't need legislation because I didn't have legislation. I said close the border. We had the safest border in history in that final couple of months of my presidency. We had according to Border Patrol who was great and by the way who endorsed me for president, but I won't say that, but they endorsed me for president, Brandon, just speak to him. Look, we had the safest border in history. Now we have the worst border in history. There's never been anything like it. And people are dying all over the place, including the people that have come up in the Arizona. President Biden. The only terrorist who has done anything across the border is wanting to keep a long kill three under his administration. Kill no kind of person who has been in his administration. Kill three American soldiers. Kill three American soldiers. That's the only terrorist that's there. I'm not saying that no terrorist ever got through with that idea. They're emptying their prisons. We're looking for welcoming these people. It's simply not true. There's no data to support what he said. Once again, his exaggerating, his line. President Trump, staying on the topic of immigration, you said that you're going to carry out quote, the largest domestic deportation operation in American history on quote. Does that mean that you will deport every undocumented immigrant in America, including those who have jobs, including those whose spouses are citizens, including those who have lived here for decades. And if so, how will you do it? Just one second, he said we kill three people. The people we killed are El Bagdaddy and Salamani. The two greatest terrorist, biggest terrorist anywhere in the world. And it had a huge impact on everything, not just border on everything. He's the one that killed people with a bad order, including hundreds of thousands of people dying. And also killing our citizens when they come in. We are living right now in a rat's nest. They're killing our people in New York in California and every state in the union because we don't have borders anymore. Every state is now a border. And because of his ridiculous insane and very stupid policies, people are coming in and they're killing our citizens. And a level that we've never said, we call it migrant crime. I call it Biden migrant crime. They're killing our citizens at a level that we've never seen before. And you're reading it like these three incredible young girls over the last few days. One of them I just spoke to the mother and he just had the funeral for this girl 12 years old. This is horrible what's taken place. What's taken place in our country will literally an uncivilized country now. He doesn't want it to be. He just doesn't know. He opened the borders. Nobody's ever seen anything like. And we have to get a lot of these people out. And we have to get them out fast because they're going to destroy our country. Let's take a look at where they're living. They're living in luxury hotels in New York City and other places. Our veterans are on the street. They're dying because he doesn't care about our veterans. He doesn't care. He doesn't like the military at all. And he doesn't care about our veterans. Nobody been worse. I had the highest approval rating for veterans taking care of the VA. He has the worst. He's gotten rid of all the things that I approve. Choice that I got through Congress. All of the different things I approve. They abandoned. They did by far the highest and now it's down in less than half because he's done all these great things that we did. And I think he did it just because I approved it, which is crazy. But he has killed so many people at our border by the border. All of these people to come in. And as I've heard, in a minute. President Biden, you have the mic. Every single thing you say is a lie. Every single one. For example, veterans are held up better options. They passed the pack pack. One million of them now have insurance and their families have it. And families have it because what happened. Whether there was agent orange or burn pits, they're all being covered now. And he opposed his group of posts that. We're also in a situation where we have great respect for veterans. My son spent a year in Iraq. And they've won an extra of those burn pits. Come back with states for a Glee of Us, Toma. I was recently in France for a D-day. And I spoke to all about those heroes that died. I went to the World War II cemetery, World War I cemetery, refused to go to. He was standing in his first thorough general. And he told me, said, I don't want to go in there because they're much older than suckers. My son was not a loser. He was not a sucker. You're a sucker. You're a loser. President Trump. First of all, that was a made up quote. Suckers and losers. They made it up. It was in the third rate magazine that's failing. Like many of these magazines. He made that up. He put it in commercials. We've notified him. We had 19 people that said I didn't say it. And think of this. Who would say I'm at a cemetery or I'm talking about our veterans? Because nobody's taken better care. I'm so glad this came up and he brought it up. There's nobody that's taken better care of our soldiers than I have. To think that I would in front of generals and others say, suckers and losers. We have 19 people that said it was never said by me. It was made up by him. Just like Russia, Russia, Russia, Russia, was made up. It's like the 51 intelligence agents are made up. Just like the new thing with the 16 economists are talking to the same thing. 51 intelligence agents said that the laptop was Russia disinformation. It wasn't. That came from his son Hunter. It wasn't Russia disinformation. He made up the suckers and losers. He should apologize to be right now. The more star General Standard side was on your staff. He said you said it. Period. That's number one. Number two, the idea, the idea that I have to apologize to you for anything along the line. We've done more for veterans than any president has in American history. American history. And now we're in their family. The only sacred obligation we have is the country. It's the care for our veterans to make them home and their families and equip them when they go to war. That's what we're doing. That's what the VAs are doing now. They're doing more for veterans than ever before in our history. All right. Thank you so much. The topic of foreign policy. I want to begin with Russia's war against Ukraine, which is now in its third year. Former President Trump, Russian President Vladimir Putin says he'll only end this war. If Russia keeps the Ukrainian territory, it has already claimed. And Ukraine abandons its bid to join NATO. Our Putin's terms acceptable to you. The first of all, our veterans and our soldiers can't stand this guy. They can't stand them. They think is the worst commander in chief of that's what you call them that we've ever had. They can't stand them. So let's get that straight. And they like me more than just about any of them. And that's based on every single bit of information. As far as Russia and Ukraine, if we had a real president, the president that knew that was respected by Putin, he would have never. And he would have never invaded Ukraine. A lot of people are dead right now. Much more than people know. They talk about numbers. You can double those numbers. Maybe triple those numbers. He did nothing to stop. And in fact, I think he encouraged Russia for going in. I tell you what happened. He was so bad with Afghanistan. It was such a horrible embarrassment. Most embarrassing moment in the history of our country that when Putin watched that and he saw the incompetence that he should, he should have fired those generals like I fired the one that you mentioned. So he's got no love loss. But he should have fired those generals. No general got fired for the most embarrassing moment in the history of our country of Afghanistan. Where we left billions of dollars of equipment behind, we lost 13 beautiful soldiers and 38 soldiers were obliterated. And by the way, we left people behind too. We left American citizens behind. When Putin saw that, he said, you know what? I think we're going to go in and maybe take my, this is his dream. I talked to him about his dream. The difference is he never would have invaded. You could never. It just like Israel would have never been invaded. In a million years by Hamas, you know why? Because Iran was broke with me. I wouldn't let anybody do business with him. They ran out of money. They were broke. They had no money for Hamas. They had no money for anything. No money for terror. That's why you had no terror at all during my administration. This place, the whole world is blowing up under him. President Biden. I've never heard so much about my life. Look, the fact of the matter is that we're in a situation where let's take the last point first. Iran attacked American troops killed. I heard it because of the brain damage for a number of these troops. And he did nothing about it. Recently, when he was president, there they attacked. He said, they're just having headaches. That's all it is. But he didn't do a thing when they attacked her place. Number one. Number two, we got over a hundred thousand Americans and others out of Afghanistan during that early. Number three, we found ourselves in a situation where if you take a look at what Trump did in Ukraine, this guy told Ukraine, it told Trump, "Do whatever you want to do whatever you want." And that's exactly what Trump did to foot in the encouraging. Do whatever you want. And he went in and listened to what he said when he went in. He was going to take key even five days. Remember, because it's part of the old Soviet Union, that's what he wanted to understand. Keyed. And he, in fact, didn't do it at all. He didn't want to get it done. And they've lost over the last thousands of thousands of troops. Five hundred thousand troops. President Trump, I never said that. For one minute, I just want to go back to my original question, which is, our Putin's terms acceptable to you. Keep in the table. I'm not sure. No, they're not acceptable. Look, this is a war that never should have started. If we had a leader in this war, he let everybody along. He's given $200 billion now or more to Ukraine. He's given $200 billion. That's how a lot of money. I don't think there's ever been anything like it. Every time that Zelensky comes to this country, he walks away with $60 billion. He's a great assailants, but never. And I'm not knocking him. I'm not knocking anything. I'm only saying the money that was spending on this war. And we shouldn't be spending. It should have never happened. I will have that war settled between Putin and Zelensky as President-elect before I take office on January 20th. I'll have that war settled. People being killed so needlessly, so stupidly. And I will get it settled and I'll get it settled fast before I take office. And then when you happen to have it. The fact is that Putin is a war criminal. He's killed thousands of thousands of people. And he has made one thing clear. He wants to re-establish what was part of a Soviet empire, not just a piece of one. All of Ukraine. That's what he wants. And then you think you'll stop there. Do you think you'll stop when he takes Ukraine? What do you think happens to the poll? What do you think it could be? Bill of Rists? What do you think happens to those NATO countries? And so if you want to war, you ought to find out what he's going to do because if it actually does what he says, it walks away by the way, all that money we give Ukraine, if we make here in the United States, we give them the weapons, not the money at this point. And our NATO allies have produced as much funding for Ukraine as we have. That's why we're strong. Thank you moving on to the Middle East. In October, Hamas attacked Israel, killing more than the thousand people and taking hundreds of hostages among those held and thought to still be alive are five Americans. Israel's response has killed thousands of Palestinians and created a humanitarian crisis in Gaza. President Biden, you've put forward a proposal to resolve this conflict. But so far, Hamas has not released the remaining hostages and Israel is continuing its military offensive in Gaza. So what additional leverage will you use to get Hamas and Israel to end the war? You have two minutes. Number one, everyone from the United States Security Council is trade through to the G7 to the Israelis and Net-Nown itself have endorsed the plan of put forward, endorsed the plan of put forward, which has three stages to it. The first stages trade the hostages for a ceasefire. Second phase is a ceasefire with additional conditions. The third phase is no, the end of the war. The only one who wants the word to continue as a mass of the war. They're going to want to stand out, we're still pushing hard to get them to accept in the meantime. What's happened in Israel, we're trying to say the only thing I've denied Israel was two thousand pound bombs. They don't work very well, populated areas, they pull out of the people, we're providing Israel with all the weapons they need and when they need them. By the way, I'm the guy that organized the world against Iran when they had a full blown in a condolences list of missile attack on Israel. No one was hurt. No one was really, was accidentally killed and it stopped. We saved Israel. We are the biggest producer of the support Israel of anyone in the world. So that's two different things. A mass cannot be allowed to continue. We continue to send our experts and our intelligence people. It's a how they can get a mass like we did by the law. You don't have to do it. By the way, they've been greatly weakened to mass. Greatly weakened and they should be. They should be eliminated. But you've got to be careful for what uses certain weapons among population centers. It's going back to you, Korean for one second. We have an ocean separating us. The European nations together have spent 100 billion or maybe more than that less than us. Why doesn't he call them? So you've got to put up your money like I did with NATO. I got them to put up hundreds of billions of dollars a secretary general of NATO said Trump did the most incredible job I've ever seen. They wouldn't have any. They were going out of business. We were spending almost 100 percent of the money was paid by us. He didn't do that. He's getting all you got to ask these people to put up the money. We're over a hundred billion dollars more spent and it has a bigger impact on them because of location because we have a notion in between. You got to ask them as far as Israel and Hamas. Israel's the one that wants to go. He said the only one that wants to keep going is Hamas. Actually, Israel is the one and you should let him go and let him finish a job. He doesn't want to do it. He's become like a Palestinian, but they don't like him because he's a very bad Palestinian. He's a weak one. President Biden, you have a minute. I've never heard so much foolishness. This is a guy who wants to get out of NATO. You can stay in NATO. You can pull out of NATO. The idea that we have our strength lies on our alliances as well. It may be a big ocean, but we're able to avoid a war in it and Europe, a major war in Europe. What happens if in fact you have put in a continue to go in the NATO. We have an article five agreement. Attack on one is attack on all. You want to start to nuclear war. He keeps talking about. Go ahead. Let Putin go in and control Ukraine and then move on to Poland and other places. It happens then. He has no idea what to tell us talking about. By the way, I got 50 other nations around the world to support Ukraine, including Japan and South Korea, because they understand that this kind of dislocation has a serious threat to the whole world peace. No major war in Europe has ever been able to be content just to Europe. President Trump, just to follow up, would you support the creation of an independent Palestinian state in order to achieve peace in the region? I'd have to see, but before we do that, the problem we have is that we spend all the money. So the kill us on trade, I made great trade deals with the European nations. Because if you add them up, they're about the same size economically. Their economy is about the same size as the United States. And they were no cars. No. I think that we have. But we're supposed to take their cars, their food, their agriculture. I change that. But the big thing I change is they don't want to pay. And the only reason that he can play games with NATO is because I got them to put up hundreds of billions of dollars. I said, and he's right about this. I said, no, I'm not going to support NATO if you don't pay. They asked me that question. Would you guard us against Russia at a very secret meeting of the 28 states at that time? And I said, no, if you don't pay, I won't do that. And you know what happened? Billions and billions of dollars came flowing in the next day in the next months. But now we're in the same position. We're paying everybody's bills. Let's turn to the issue of democracy, a former President Trump. I want to ask you about January 6, 2021. After you rallied your supporters that day, some of them stormed the capital to stop the constitutionally mandated counting of electoral votes. This President, you swore an oath to quote, "preserve, protect, and defend," on quote, the constitution. What do you say to voters who believe that you violated that oath through your actions and inaction on January 6 and worry that you'll do it again? Well, I don't think too many believe that. And let me tell you about January 6. On January 6, we had a great border. Nobody coming through a very few. On January 6, we were energy independent. On January 6, we had the lowest taxes ever. We had the lowest regulations ever. On January 6, we were respected all over the world, all over the world we were respected. And then he comes in and we're now left at, we're like a bunch of stupid people. What happened to the United States's reputation under this man's leadership is horrible, including weaponization, which I'm sure at some point you'll be talking about, where he goes after his political opponent, because he can't beat him fair and square. You have 80 seconds left. My question was, what do you say to those voters who believe that you violated your constitutional oath through your actions and inaction on January 6, 2021, and worry that you'll do it again? Well, I didn't say that to anybody. I said peacefully and patriatically. And Nancy Pelosi, if you just watched the news from two days ago, on tape to her daughter, who's a documentary filmmaker, I'd say. But you saying, oh no, it's my responsibility. I was responsible for this, because I offered her 10,000 soldiers or national guard, and she turned them down and the mayor of, in writing, by the way, the mayor, in writing, turned it down, the mayor of DC. They turned it down. I offered 10,000 because I could see. I had virtually nothing to do. They asked me to go make a speech. I could see what was happening. Everybody was saying they're going to be there on January 6. They're going to be there. And I said, you know what? That's a lot of people coming. You could feel it. You could feel it too. You could feel it. And I said, they ought to have some national guard or whatever. And I offered it to her. And she now admits that she turned it down. And it was the same day. She was, I don't know, he can't be very happy with her daughter, because it made her into a liar. She said, I take full responsibility for January 6. President Biden. Look, he encouraged this folks above the Capitol. Number one. I sat in that dining room off in the office. He sat there for three hours. Three hours watching. Biggie being begged by his vice president and a number of his colleagues in Republican side as well to do something, to call for a stop, to end it. Instead, he talked about this. He'd be Paterson and great patrons of America. In fact, he says he'll now forgive them for what they've done. They've been convicted. He says he wants this commuter census. He said, no, he went to every single court in the nation. I don't know how many cases scores the case, including Supreme Court. And they said, no, no, this guy is responsible for doing what is being done. He did do a damn thing. And these people should be a jail. And they should be ones are being held accountable. And he wants to let them all out. And now he says that he loses again, such a wider that he is, that there could be a blood bat. President Biden, President Trump. Where they've done to some people that are so innocent, you ought to be ashamed of yourself. Where you have done how you've destroyed the lives of so many people. When they rip down Portland, when they rip down many other cities, you go to Minnesota, manyapolis, but they've done there with the fires all over the city. If I didn't bring in the national guard, that city would have been destroyed. And you look at all of the, they took over big chunks of Seattle. I was all set to bring in the national guard. They heard that. They saw them coming and they left immediately. What he said about this whole subject is so off peacefully, Patrick, one other thing. The Unselect Committee, which is basically two horrible Republicans that are all gone now at the office and Democrats, all Democrats, they destroyed and deleted all of the information they found because they found out we were right. We were right and they deleted and destroyed all of the information. They should go for jail for that. If a Republican did that, they go to jail. Thank you, President Trump, President Biden. I want to give you a minute. You're only personally, this stage is a convicted fellow, this man I'm looking at right now. And the fact of the matter is, he is, when he's telling you, simply not true. The fact is that there is no effort on his part to stop what was going on. I've been capitalized. All those people, everyone of those who are convicted deserves to be convicted. The idea that they didn't kill somebody just went in and broke down doors, broke the windows. I could hide offices, turned over desk, turned over statues. The idea that those people are patriots, come on. When I asked him about first or two debates we had, the debates we had, first time around. I said, "Well, you did not support boy." He said, "No, I've told them to stand by." The idea he's refusing to announce these guys. You're to announce the people we're talking about now. You're to announce the people who attack that capital. What are you going to do? I'm going to give you a minute, President Trump, for a follow-up question I have. After a jury convicted you of 34 felonies last month, you said if reelected you would quote, "Have every right to go after," unquote, "your political opponents," you just talked about members of the Select Committee on January 6th going to jail. Your main political opponent is standing on stage with you tonight. Can you clarify exactly what it means about you feeling you have every right to go after your political opponents? Well, I said, "My retribution is going to be success. We're going to make this country successful again because right now it's a failing nation. My retribution is going to be success. But when he talks about a convicted felon, his son is a convicted felon at a very high level. His son is convicted. He's going to be convicted probably numerous other times. She should have been convicted before, but his justice department let the statute of limitations laps and the most important things. But he could be a convicted felon as soon as he gets out of office. Joe could be a convicted felon with all of the things that he's done. He's done horrible things. All of the death caused at the border. Telling the Ukrainian people that we're going to want a billion dollars or you change the prosecutor. Otherwise, you're not getting a billion dollars. If I have it said that, that's quit pro quo. We're not going to do anything. We're not going to give you a billion dollars or less. You change your prosecutor having to do with the son. This man is a criminal. This man, you're lucky. You're lucky. I did nothing wrong. We'd have a system that was rigged and disgusting. I did nothing wrong. Thank you, President Trump. President Biden, you have said I'm coming right to you, sir. Well, you want to respond? Go ahead. I'll give you a minute for response. The idea that I did anything wrong relative to which you're talking about is outrageous. It's simply a lie. Number one. Number two, the idea that you have a right to seek retribution against any American just because your president is wrong. It's simply wrong. No president said I spoke to him like that before. No president. And our history spoke on like that before. Number three, the crimes that you are still charged with. And think about the civil peddle as you have. How many billions of dollars do you own civil peddle for a militant or a Palestinian woman of public for doing no home range of things of having sex or a porn star on the night in the area where your wife is pregnant? What are you talking about? Are you the morals of an alley cat? Bigger matter. I didn't have sex with a porn star. Number one. Number two, that was a case that was started and moved. They moved a high rank in official a DOJ into them and hadn't DA's office to start that case. It's going to be a pealed in one. We had a very terrible judge, a horrible judge, Democrat. The prosecutor were all high ranking Democrats appointed people and both the civil and the criminal. He basically went after his political opponent because he thought it was going to damage me. But when the public found out about these cases because they understand it better than he does. He has no idea what these cases are. But when they found out about these cases, you know what they did? My poll numbers went up way up. I know that because you're reporting it. And we took in more money in the last two weeks than we've ever taken in the history of any campaign. I don't think any campaign has ever taken hundreds of millions of dollars came pouring in because the public knows it's a scam and it's a guy that's after his political opponent because he can't win fair and square. Thank you President Trump. President Biden, you have said, quote, "Donald Trump and his maga Republicans are determined to destroy American democracy. You believe that the tens of millions of Americans who are likely to vote for President Trump will be voting against American democracy." The more they know about what is done, yes. The more they know about what is done. And it's not more a comment. He's got a lot of cases around the world coming out. He's got a whole range of issues, yes, to face. I don't know what the jury will do. But I do not do know he has a real problem. And so the fact that, because you ever think you're hearing any President say that I'm going to seek recognition to ever hear any President say that I thought he'd have had some good ideas, what got me involved around the first place after my son and dad had decided to interact because of the rack. I said, "I wouldn't be going to run again until I've sort happened to Charlottesville, Virginia." People coming out of the woods carrying swastikists on torches, torches and singing the same in a smetic bio that sang when back in Germany. And he went to a young woman, I spoke to the mother and she asked him and he said, "What do you think of those people? The people who are the ones who got killed, who wanted to have to stop it?" And the ones he said, "I think to find people in both sides. What American President, whatever say, not just coming out of fields carrying torches, singing the same in a smetic bio, carrying swastikists or finding people. This is a guy who says Hitler's done some good things, I like to know what they are. He thinks Hitler's done that sort of said, "Scar has no sense American democracy." President Trump. Jake, both of you know that Sir has been totally wiped out because when you see the sentence, it said 100% exoneration on that. So he just keeps it going. He says he ran because of Charlottesville, he didn't run because of Charlottesville. He ran because it was his last chance. He's not equipped to be President. You know it. And I know it. It's ridiculous. We have a debate. We're trying to justify his presidency. His presidency is without question. The worst president, the worst presidency in the history of our country. We shouldn't be having a debate about it. There's nothing to debate. He made up the Charlottesville story. And you'll see it's debunked all over the place. Every anchor has the every reasonable anchor has debunked it. And just the other day it came out where it was fully debunked. It's a nonsense story. He knows that. And he didn't run because of Charlottesville. He used that as an excuse to run. President Obama. And debunk. It happened. All you have to do is listen to what we said at the time. And the idea that somehow that's the only reason I ran. I ran because I was worried to go like this guy if he thought they were good people coming out of that all, that force. Carrying those things with Carino's torches, then he didn't deserve to be president. Didn't deserve to be president all. And the idea that he's talking about all this being fabricated, we saw with our own eyes, we saw what happened on January. We saw the people breaking the windows. We saw people occupying their own vice president. But there's a reason why 40 of his 44 top cabinet officers refused in torsion this time. As vice president hasn't torsion this time. So why? Why they know they will. They serve with them. Why are they not endorsing him? Thank you, President Biden. We're going to be right back with more from the CNN presidential debate. [MUSIC] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] Welcome back to the CNN presidential debate live from Georgia. Let's talk about persistent challenges you both faced in your first terms, and you'd certainly face again in a second term. President Biden, while black unemployment dropped to a record low under your presidency, black families still earned far less than white families. Black mothers are still three times more likely to die for pregnancy related causes, and black Americans are imprisoned at five times the rate of white Americans. What do you say to black voters who are disappointed that you haven't made more progress? You know, there's been a lot of progress, number one. The fact of matter is a more small black businesses that have been started at the time of the history. Number two, the wages of black, there are a lot of black kind of planning as the lowest level of spending a long long time. Number three, we're finding that they're trying to find housing for black Americans. And the other thing, segregation that exists among these corporate, these corporate relations are called to keep people out of their houses. In addition to that, we find that the impact of the choice that black families have to make relative to childcare is incredibly difficult. We did the first major piece of legislation the past. I was able to reduce black childcare costs, a cut them in half and half. I'm going to make sure we provide the childcare cost, because when you provide that childcare protections, you increase economic growth because more people can be in the job market. So there's more to be done, considerably more to be done. But we've done a great deal so far and I'm not letting up and they know it. You have 49 seconds left. What do you say to black voters who are disappointed with the progress so far? I don't blame it for being disappointed. Inflation is still hurting the badly. For example, I provided for the idea that any black family, first time home by, she got a $10,000 tax credit to be able to buy their first home. So they can get started. I made sure that we're in a situation where all those black families are black in the business. Provided to take out student loans that were polluting that a favorite, a good case in nursing, doctor, anything that happened to do with all terrorism. If they paid their bills for 10 years, I'm going to student debt, all the rest is forgiven after 10 years. The millions have been for the format and we're going to do a whole lot more from black families. Thank you, President Trump. And he caused the inflation. He's blaming inflation and he's right that's been very bad. He caused the inflation and it's killing black families and his spanic families and just about everybody. It's killing people. They can't buy groceries anymore. They can't. You look at the cost of food where it's doubled and tripled and quadrupled. They can't live. They're not living anymore. He caused this inflation. I gave him a country with no essentially no inflation. It was perfect. It was so good. All he had to do is leave it alone. He destroyed it with his green new scam and all of the other, all this money that's being thrown out the window. He caused inflation. I assure you you're sitting there. The fact is that his big kill on the black people is the millions of people that he's allowed to come in through the border. They're taking black jobs now and it could be 18. It could be 19 and even 20 million people. They're taking black jobs and they're taking Hispanic jobs and you haven't seen it yet. But you're going to see something that's going to be the worst in our history. Thank you. President Biden. There was no inflation when I became president of the Congress flat on its back. Fifteen percent unemployment. He decimated the economy. Absolutely decimated the economy. That's why there was no inflation at the time. There were no jobs. It provided thousands of millions of jobs for individuals who were involved in communities, including minority communities. We made sure that they have health insurance. We have covered with the ACA has increased. I made sure that there are $8,000 per person in the family to pick it up with health care. But this guy wants to eliminate that. They've tried 50 times. He wants to get rid of the ACA again. And they're going to try again if they win. If I find ourselves in a position where the idea that we're not doing it, I put more police on the street than any administration has. He wants to cut the cops. We're providing for equity. Equity in making sure people have a shot to make it. There's a lot going on. But in inflation, he caused it by his tremendous amount of visits in the way out of the pandemic. Thank you. Another persistent challenge is the climate crisis. Twenty twenty three was the hottest year in recorded history and communities across. The country are confronting the devastating effects of extreme heat. Intensifying wildfires, stronger hurricanes and rising sea levels. Former President Trump, you've vowed to end your opponents climate initiatives. But will you take any action as president to slow the climate crisis? Let me just go back to what he said about the police. How close the police are there. Almost every police group in the nation from every state is supporting Donald J. Trump. Almost every police group. And what he's done to the black population is horrible. Including the fact that for ten years he called him super predators. We can't in the nineteen as we can't forget that. Super predators was his name. And he called it to him and they've taken great offense at it. And now they see it happening. But when they see what I did for criminal justice reform and for the historically black colleges and universities. Where I funded them and got them all funded. And the opportunity zones with with him as you know, Tim Scott was incredibly did a great job. Great senator from South Carolina. He came to me with the idea and it was a great idea. It's one of the most successful economic development acts ever in the country. Opportunity zones. And the biggest beneficiary are blacks. And that's why we have the best numbers with them. And maybe ever they're saying ever I read this morning where ever the best numbers. He's lost much of the black population because he's done a horrible job for black people. He's also done a horrible job for Hispanics. But when you see these millions of people pouring it to our country and they're going to take the jobs and it's already started. And you haven't seen anything yet. It's a disaster. You've 38 seconds left. President Trump will you take any action as president to slow the climate crisis. So I want absolutely a macula clean water. And I want absolutely clean air. And we had it. We had H2O. We had the best numbers ever. And we did. We were using all forms of energy, all forms everything. And yet during my four years I had the best environmental numbers ever. And my top environmental people gave me that statistic just before I walked on the stage actually. I don't know where the hell he's been. The idea that he said it's true. I've passed a most extensive, most extensive climate change legislation in history in history. We find ourselves, by the way, black colleges. I've came up with $15 billion for HBCU's historic black universities and colleges because they don't have of. They don't have the kind of contributors that they have to build these laboratories and all like. And he black students keep on colleges doing any way student can do. He just have the money but now they'll be able to get those jobs in high tech. We're in a situation where the idea that he is conclaming to have done something that had the cleanest water. Cleanest water. He had done a damn thing when he environment. He out of the Paris peace court, a common court. I immediately joined it because if we reach 4.5 degrees Celsius and anymore progress, no way back. The only existential threat to humanity is climate change. And he didn't do a damn thing about it. He must undo all that I've done. The Paris Accord was going to cost us a trillion dollars and China nothing and Russia nothing. And India nothing. It was a rip off of the United States and I ended it because I didn't want to waste that money because they treat us horribly. We were the only ones who was costing us money. Nobody else was paying it to it. And it was a disaster. But everything that he said just now, I'll give you an example. I heard him say before insulin. I'm the one that got the insulin down for the seniors. I took care of the seniors. What he's doing is destroying all of our medical programs because the migrants coming in. They want everybody and look, I have the biggest heart in the stage. I guarantee that. And I want to take care of people. But we're destroying our country. They're taking over our schools, our hospitals. And they're going to be taking over social security. He is destroying social security, Medicare and Medicaid. The idea is that we in fact, we were the only ones of consequence or not. We're not members of the Paris Accord. How can we do anything? We're not able to do the United States, can't get us under control. One of the largest polluters in the world. Number one, our American significant progress. By 2035, we will have put pollution in half. We have made significant progress. And we're continuing to make progress. We set up a climate core for thousands of young people who learn how to deal with climate Just like the Peace Corps. And we're going to move in directions that are going to significantly change the elements of cause of pollution. But the idea that he claims that he has the biggest heart up here. It is really concerned about pollution and about climate. I'm not seeing any indication of that. And by the way, with regard to prescription drugs, one company agreed that they would reduce the price to $35, which I was calling for one voluntarily. I make sure every company in the world, every pharmaceutical company, cannot have to pay. And by the way. So every day, millions of Americans struggle just to make ends meet for many older Americans. Social security provides a critical lifeline. President Biden, if nothing is done to social security seniors will see their benefits cut in just over 10 years. Will you name tonight one specific step that you're willing to take to keep social security solvent? Yes, make the very wealthy begin to pay their first share. Right now, everybody making under $70,000 is a 6% of their income of their paycheck every single time they get a paycheck from the time the first one they get when they're 18 years old. The idea that they're going to, I'm not going to either propose to that. Everybody, they pay. The millionaires pay 1% 1%. So no one after, I would not raise the cost of so-so security for anybody under $400,000 after that. I began to make the wealthy began to pay their share by increasing from 1% beyond to be able to guarantee the program for life. So you still have 82 seconds left. Are there any other measures that you think that would be able to help keep social security solvent or is that one enough? Well, that one enough will keep itself. But the biggest thing I'll do is we defeat this man because he wants to get rid of so-so security. He thinks there's plenty to cut and so-so security. He's wanted to cut so-so security and medicare both times. And that's what, and if you look at the program put forward by the House Republican caucus that he supports is in fact wanting to cut it as well. The idea that we don't need to protect our seniors is ridiculous. We put, we've, and by the way, American public has greater health care coverage today than ever before. And on the ACS I said, you're in a circumstance where 400,000 people, I'm referring to 40 million people. We're not having insurance because they have a pregnancy condition. Only allows them to have that insurance. He is the fact that they in fact are part of the ACA. And by the way, the other thing is, we're in a situation where we talk about education for black communities. I've raised the number of the amount of money for programs and other $8,000. Anybody making under $70,000 a year can be able to get $15,000 towards the tuition. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. I'm just not sure if you can get a $15,000. That's what he said. He was the one standing with Trump when he said it. Number one. Number two. The idea that we're going to be in a situation where all these millions and millions in way talks about it is legally and is becoming in the country and taking away our jobs. There's a reason why we have the fastest growing economy in the world. The reason why we have most successful economy in the world. We're doing better than any other nation in the world. By the way, those 15 Nobel laureates, you talked about being funny. A 15 Nobel laureate, it's a economist, they all said that if Trump is reelected, we're elected to have a recession and inflation is going to increase the evolve. And by the way, worst President history, 159 President of Scotland's voted him in the worst President of the history of the United States and America. President Biden, thank you so much. Let's turn to the cost of childcare, which many American families struggle to afford. President Trump both you and President Biden have tried to address this issue. But the average cost of childcare in this country is risen to more than $11,000 a year per child for many families. The cost of childcare for two children is more than their rent. In your second term, what would you do to make childcare more affordable? I just think about the general that fired because he was no good. And if he said that, that's why he made it up. But we have 19 people that said I didn't say it and they're very highly respected, much more so than him. The other thing is, he doesn't fire people. He never fired people. I've never seen a fire anybody, but I did fire a lot. I fired Komi because he was no good. I fired a lot of the top people at the FBI during the swamp. They were no good. Not easier fire people. You'd pay a price for it. But they were no good. I inherited these people. I didn't put them that in put Komi there. He was no good. I fired him. This guy has fired anybody. He'd never fired. He should have fired every military man that was involved with that Afghan. He have got a sin. The most embarrassing moment in the history of our country. He didn't fire. Did you fire anybody? Did you fire anybody? That's on the border. That's allowed us to have the worst border in the history of the world. Did anybody get fired for allowing 18 million people? Many from prisons. Many from mental institutions. Did you fire anybody that allowed our country to beat the country? Joe, our country is being destroyed. As you and I sit up here and waste a lot of time on this debate. They shouldn't be a debate. He's the worst president. He just said about me because I said it. But look, he's the worst president in the history of our country. He's destroyed our country. Now all of a sudden he's trying to get a little tough on the border. He came out with nothing, nothing deal. And it reduced a little bit. A little bit. Like this much. It's insignificant. He wants open borders. He wants our country to either be destroyed or he wants to pick up those people as voters. And I don't think we just can't let it happen. If he wins this election, our country doesn't have a chance. Not even a chance of coming out of this rut. We probably won't have a country left anymore. That's how bad it is. He's the worst in history by far. Thank you President Trump, President Biden. We are the most admired country in the world. We're the United States of America. There's nothing beyond our capacity. We're the finest military in the history of the world. The finest in the history of the world. No one thinks for a week. No one wants to screw around with us. Nobody. Number one. Number two. The idea that we're talking about worse presidents. I was in joking. Look it up. Go online. 159 or 58 don't have any exact number. Presence historians. They've had meetings. They've voted. Who's the worst president of American history. One, the best to worst. They said he was the worst in all of American history. That's a fact. That's not a conjecture. He can argue the wrong. But that's what they voted. The idea that he is knowing. Doing anything to deal with child care. He did very perpetually nothing to talk. We should significantly increase the child care tax credit. We should significantly increase the availability of women and men. Our single parents to be able to go back to work. And we should encourage businesses to hold to have. Thank you. President Trump, the question was about what would you do to make child care more affordable. If you want to take your minute. Just you understand. We have polling. We have other things that they ran into the worst because what he's done is so bad. And they raped me. I'll show you. I will show you. And they raped me one of the best. Okay. And if I'm given another four years. I will be the best. I think I'll be the best. Nobody's ever created a economy like us. Nobody ever cut taxes like us. He's the only one I know. He wants to raise your taxes by four times. He wants to raise everybody's taxes by four times. He wants to trump tax cuts to expire. So everybody including the two of you. I'll get to pay four to five times. Nobody ever heard of this before. All my life I'd grow up and see politicians talking about cutting taxes. When we cut taxes as I said. We did more business. Apple and all these companies. They were bringing money back into our country. The worst president in history by far and everybody knows it. President Biden. Look, fact in the matter is that he's dead wrong about he's increased the. He's increased he will increase the taxes on mil class people. I said I'd never raise the tax about anybody. I might come up with less than $4,000. I didn't. But this tire has 10% tears. Everything coming in the country. You know what that kind of say? That's going to cost the average American. $2,500 a year more because they're going to have to pay the difference. And food and all the things that we imported. Number two. He's in a situation where he talks about how he is not raised. He's somehow helped the middle class. Little class have been devastated by you. Now you want to new tax cut of five to the end dollars over the next 10 years. Which is going to fundamentally bankrupt the country. You have the largest deficit of any president of American history. Number one. Number two. You have not in fact made any contact any any any progress. We're China. We're the lowest trade deficit with China since 2010. Thank you. President. Thank you. President. Let's introduce. It's discussing epidemic impacting millions of Americans. The both of you have made a top priority in your first term. The opioid crisis and for both of you. The number of overdose deaths in this country has gone up under your term. It went up under your term. It has gone up. A former president Trump despite the efforts that both of you have made more than 100,000 Americans are dying from overdoses every year. Primarily from fentanyl and other opioids. What will you do to help Americans right now in the throws of addiction who are struggling to get the treatment they need? To finish up. We now have the largest deficit in the history of our country under this guy. We have the largest deficit with China. He gets paid by China. He's a man, Cheering and Canada. He gets money from China. We have, so I think he's afraid to deal with it or something. But do you notice he never took out my tariffs because we bring in so much money with the tariffs that I imposed on China. He never took him away. Can't because it's too much money. It's tremendous. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. He's going to be a big deal. And the byproducts went all went down for a while. And I wanted to make sure we use them. The machinery that can detect them all is big machines that roll over everything that comes across the border. And it costs a lot of money. That was part of this deal. We put together. It's byproducts in deal. More fit and all machines, more able to detect drugs, more numbers of agents, more numbers of all people at the border. And when we had that deal done, he called us. He said, "You can't do it." He said, "Don't do it." It's going to hurt me politically. He never argued. It's not a good deal. It's a really good deal. We need those machines. We need those machines. We're coming down very hard in every country in Asia in terms of precursors from Femmaul. And Mexico is working with us to make sure they don't have the technology to be able to put it together. That's what we have to do. We need those machines. Thank you, President Biden. I present in Trampoyne again. The question is about Americans and the throws of addiction right now struggling to get the treatment they need. This is because this does pretend it to it. He ended remain in Mexico. He ended catch in release. I made it catch in release in Mexico. Not catch in release here. We had so many things that we had done. Hard negotiations with Mexico. And I got it off and nothing. It's just like when he have a hostage. We always pay $6 billion for every table he says a hostage. Now we have a hostage, a Wall Street Journal reporter. I think a good guy and he's over there because Putin is laughing at this guy. Probably asking for billions of dollars for the reporter. I will have him out very quickly as soon as I take office before I take office. I said by literally as soon as I win the election, I will have that reporter out. He should have had him out a long time ago. But Putin's probably asking for billions and billions of dollars because this guy pays it every time. Two cases, we paid $6 billion for five people. I got 58 people out and I paid essentially nothing. Thank you President Trump, down. Let's turn to concerns that voters have about each of you. President Biden, you would be 86 at the end of your second term. How do you address concerns about your capability to handle the toughest job in the world well into your 80s? Well, first of all, I have to have my career been because I was being the youngest person in politics. I was the second youngest person ever elected in the United States Senate and now I'm the oldest. This guy is three years younger and a lot less competent. I think this is a look at the record. Look what I've done. Look how I've turned around the horrible situation you left me. As I said, 50 million new jobs, $800,000,000,000,000,000, more investment in America over a million, billion of dollars in private investment in enterprises that we are growing. We've been by the way, we brought off a lot of people, the whole idea of computer chips. We set up 50% of the market, we invented those chips. And we lost it because he was sending people to find the cheapest jobs overseas and bring home of product. So I went to South Korea. I convinced Samsung to invest billions of dollars here in the United States. And they're, guess what, those fabs they call that to the ability chips. Those fabs pay over $100,000. You don't need to call as to agree for them. And there's billions, about $40 billion already being invested in being built right now in the United States creating significant jobs for Americans all over the world. President Biden, you have 40 seconds left, would you like to add anything? Yeah, I would. The idea that somehow we are this failing country, I'd never heard a president talk like this before. We were the envy of the world, namely a single major country president wouldn't trade places in the United States of America for all our problems in all our opportunities. We're the most progressive country in the world and did things done for the strongest country in the world. We're a country in the world who keeps our word and everybody trusts us, all of our allies and our, and our, and our, those who he coalesapted from Kim Jong-il. He said, "Love letters to an opponent," etc. They don't want to screw around with us. Thank you. For a president Trump to follow up, you would be 82 at the end of your second term. What do you say to voters who have concerns about your capabilities to serve? Well, I took two tests, cognitive tests. I asked them both of them, as you know, we made it public. He took none. I'd like to see him take one. Just one. I'd like to go through the first five questions you couldn't do. But I took two cognitive tests. I took physical exams every year. And you know, we not going wood wherever we may have wood, that I'm in very good health. I just won two club championships, not even senior, two regular club championships. To do that, you have to be quite smart and you have to be able to hit the ball along way and I do it. He doesn't do it. He can't hit a ball 50 yards. He challenged me to a golf match. He can hit a ball 50 yards. I think I'm in very good shape. I feel that I'm in good shape as I was 25, 30 years ago. I actually have probably a little bit lighter. But I'm in as good as shape as I was years ago. I feel very good. I feel the same. But I took I was willing to take a cognitive test. And you know what I've done? I asked them. Dr. Ronnie Jackson, who's a great guy when he was White House doctor. And then I took another one, a similar one. And both of them said they'd never seen anybody as him. Thank you. President Biden. You can see he is 65 and only 20, 20, 30, 30, 35 pounds. Well, he said 64, 200. Well anyway, that's it. You're, you know, just take a look at what he says he is. Take a look at what he is. Look, I'd be happy to have a driving contest with him. I got my handicap, which one I was Vice President down to a six. By the way, I told him he'd be fine. I'm happy to play golf if you're carrying on bag. You can do it. That's the biggest round. It's a six handicap of all. I was a 80 handicap. Eight. I have you know how many of you? I've seen this way, I know you swing. But let's just go back to the children. President Trump, we're going to-- 20, let's not act like children. You know, the specific concern that voters have about you. Well you pledge tonight that once all legal challenges have been exhausted, that you will accept the results of this election, regardless of who wins. And you will say right now that political violence in any form is unacceptable. Well, I shouldn't have to say that. But of course, I believe that it's totally unacceptable. And if you would see my statements that I made on Twitter at the time, and also my statement that I made in the Rose Garden, you would say is one of the strongest statements you've ever seen. In addition to the speech I made, in front of, I believe the largest crowd I've ever spoken to. And I will tell you, nobody ever talks about that. They talk about a relatively small number of people that went to the capital. And in many cases, we're ushered in by the police. And as Nancy Pelosi said, it was her responsibility, not mine. She said that loud and clear. But the answer is, if the election is fair, free, and I want that more than anybody. And I'll tell you something. I wish he was a great president, because I wouldn't be here right now. I wouldn't be at one of my many places enjoying myself. I wouldn't be under indictment because I wouldn't have been as political opponent. Because he indicted me because I was a opponent. I wish he was a great president. I would rather have that. I wouldn't be here. I don't mind being here. The only reason I'm here is he's so bad as a president that I'm going to make America great again. We're going to make America great again. We're a failing nation right now. We're a seriously failing nation. And we're failing nation because of him. His policies are so bad. His military policies are insane. They're insane. These awards that will never end with him. He will drive us into World War 3. And we're closer to World War 3 than anybody can imagine. We are very, very close to World War 3. And he's driving us there. And Kim Jong-un and Presidency of China, Kim Jong-un of North Korea. All of these Putin, they don't respect them. They don't fear him. They have nothing going with this gentleman. And he's going to drive us into World War 3. You want a World War 3. That you may follow and win. And that Putin said, "Do what you want, NATO." Just do what you want. There's a thing called Article 5. Attack on one of the attack on all required response. The idea, the idea. I can't think of a single major leader in the world who wouldn't trade place with what job I've done with the day of time. Because we are a powerful nation. We have wonderful peace because of the people, not these because of the American people. They're capable of anything. They step up with your needed. And right now, we're needed. We're needed to protect the world because there are uncertainties to stay. And again, you want to have a war to split Putin. Go ahead and take, keep, make sure they move on. See what happens in Poland, Hungary and other places along that border. Then you have a war. President Trump, as they come back to you for a follow-up, the question was, will you accept the results of this election regardless of who wins? Just to finish what he said, if I might. Russia, they took a lot of land from Bush. They took a lot of land from Obama and Biden. They took no land, nothing from Trump. Nothing. He knew not to do it. They're not going to play games with me. He knew that. I got along with him very well, but he knew not to play games. He took nothing from me. But now he's going to take the whole thing from this man right here. That's a war that should have never started. It would have never started ever with me. And he's going to take Ukraine. And you know, you asked me a question before, would you do this with, he's got us in such a bad position right now with, with Ukraine and Russia. Because you couldn't sit out winning that war. He said, I will never settle until such time. They're running out of people. They're running out of soldiers. They've lost so many people. It's so sad. They've lost so many people. And they've lost those gorgeous cities with the golden domes that are a thousand years old. All because of him and stupid decisions. Russia would have never attacked. The question was, will you accept the results of the election? Regardless of who wins, yes or no, please. If it's a fair and legal and good election, absolutely. I would have much rather accepted these, but the fraud and everything else was ridiculous. And if you want, we'll have a news conference on it in a week. I will have another one of these on it in a week. But I will absolutely, there's nothing I'd rather do. It would be much easier for me to do that than I'm running again. I wasn't really going to run until I saw the horrible job he did. He's destroying our country. I would be very happy to be someplace else in a nice location someplace. And again, no indictments, no political opponents, because it's the only way he thinks he can win. But unfortunately, it's driven up my numbers and driven up to a very high level. Because the people understand it. What series are your numbers are in this election as over? Let's see. You're a winner. When you lost the first time, you see, you continued. You appealed in the appeal to courts all across the country. Not one single court in America said any of your claims at any American state or local none. But you continued to provoke this lie about somehow there's all this misrepresentation, all this stealing. There's no evidence of that at all. And I tell you what, I doubt whether you're accepted because you're such a winner. The idea if you lose again, you accept anything. You can't stand the loss. Something snapped into you in the loss of last time. We'll be right back with more from the CNN presidential debate live from Georgia. [MUSIC] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] [BLANK_AUDIO] And it's now time for the candidates to deliver their closing statements as predetermined by a coin toss. We're going to begin with you president Biden, you have two minutes. We've been significant progress from the debacle that was left by President Trump. And it's the last time. We found ourselves in a situation where number one, we have to make sure that we have a fair tax system. I ask anyone out there in the audience, everyone out watching this debate, to think the tax system is fair. The fact is that I said nobody would even make it in the $400,000. I had a single penny increasing their taxes in the world, not in the library. I'd like to get a case again, but this guy is as increased your taxes because of the deficit number one. He's increased inflation because of the debacle he left after where he handled the pandemic. And he finds himself in a position where he now wants to tax you more by putting a 10% tariff. And everything comes in the United States and America. What I did, one, for example, he wants to get away with the ability of Medicare to either the ability to afford the ability to afford the us to be able to negotiate to our prices with a big farmer companies. Well, guess what? We got it down to $15,000. $35. For instance, that $400,000, no more than $2000 for average senior no matter what they're, how much the prescription they need. You know what that is? That reduced the federal debt by $160 billion over 10 years because the government doesn't have to pay the exorbitant prices. I'm going to make that available to every senior all of our farmers happening now and everybody in America. Once they get rid of that, we have our going to make sure we have childcare. We're going to submit the increase that credits people have for childcare. We're going to make sure we do something about what we're doing on lead pipes and all the things that are causing health problems for people across the country. We're going to continue to fight to bring down inflation and give people a break. Thank you President Biden, President Trump. You now have two minutes for your closing statement. Like so many politicians, this man is just a complainer. He said, "We wanted to do this. We wanted to do that. We want to get rid of this tax tax." But he doesn't do anything. He doesn't do all he does is make our country unsafe by allowing millions and millions of people to pour in. Our military doesn't respect him. We look like fools and Afghanistan. We didn't stop Israel. It was such a horrible thing that would have never happened. It should have never happened. Iran was broke. Anybody that did business with Iran, including China. They couldn't do business with the United States. They all passed. Iran was broke. They had no money for Hamas or Hisbola. Feterred, no money whatsoever. Again, Ukraine should have never happened. He talks about all the stuff that he didn't do it for three and a half years. We're living in hell. We have the Palestinians and we have everybody else riding all over the place. You talk about Charlottesville. This is a hundred times Charlottesville, a thousand times. That whole country is exploding because of you because they don't respect you. And they have to respect their president. And they don't respect you throughout the world. What we did was incredible. We rebuilt the military. We got the largest tax cut in history. The largest regulation cut in history. The reason he's got jobs is because I cut the regulations and gave jobs. But he's putting a lot of those regulations back on. All of the things that we've done. Nobody's ever never seen anything like even from the medical standpoint, right to try. We can try space age materials instead of going to Asia or going to Europe and trying to get when you're terminally ill. Now you can go and you can get something you sign a document. They've been trying to get it for 42 years. But you know what we did for the military was incredible choice for our soldiers, where our soldiers and set a waiting for three months to see a doctor can go out and get themselves fixed up and ready to up and take care of themselves. And they're living and that's why I had the highest approval rating and the history of the VA. So all of these things were in a failing nation, but it's not going to be failing anymore. We're going to make it great again. Thank you former president Trump, President Biden.
